speaking of pillows as i was about to
not all of them guarantee sweet dreams
some of them make you sleep in an
unnatural position and don't support
your head a pillow is not going to give
you a backache all on its own
but it can make things worse having no
pillows better than a bad one
test it out for yourself if you wake up
refreshed without one
it's time to chuck that thing out
to see if a pillow's giving you good
head and neck support
put a book or something similar on it
then take it off and watch
a good pillow will definitely spring
back to its original shape in seconds
give it a little help by washing it
every six months
[Music]
if you've got yourself a super
comfortable pillow make sure you change
the pillowcase often
that thing is a sponge for germs and it
can even harm your skin and hair
you may also want to try a silk
pillowcase
it doesn't scratch your skin and since
silk absorbs less moisture than cotton
it won't dry out your skin as much if
detangling your hair when you wake up
sounds like your normal morning routine
you might want to try sleeping without a
pillow we all toss and turn at night
every time you roll over in bed you rub
your hair against the pillowcase
doesn't matter if you're trying to fall
asleep or if you're in a dream being
chased by a pack of huge hungry rabbits
your hair still pays the price another
big no-no
is going to sleep with wet hair it
causes hair damage
extra tangling it can weaken your immune
system it's not hygienic
and it can help your pillowcase get nice
and moldy
ew there are loads of pillow types and
different people need different pillows
depending on how they sleep people who
like sleeping on their stomachs
need thinner and softer pillows
[Music]
back sleepers need the kind that's
thicker and can support their head
properly
if you change positions every 10 seconds
like me
try to find a pillow where the filling
is a bit loose so it can adapt to your
changing sleep style
sometimes pillows can be the reason you
wake up tired and grumpy what do you
mean
see the wrong kind of pillow makes your
neck muscles all
tense that's how headaches start if your
pillow is too large
your neck's going to be bent all night
you'll feel uncomfortable in the morning
and it's pretty bad for your posture
same thing happens when the pillow's
just too soft or too firm
it's just like goldilocks and the three
bears except without the porridge
if you usually sleep with a pillow but
for whatever reason want to try sleeping
without one
you have to do it gradually reduce the
support bit by bit
if you sleep on your front try a thin
pillow under your chest to get the right
balance
if you already sleep without a pillow
make sure your mattress is holding up
its end of the deal even though it feels
like you're sleeping in a cloud of
fluffy goodness
a soft mattress can make you over bend
your neck when you sleep
if you feel cold no matter how heavy
your comforter is
try layering even if you use a few
lighter blankets on top of each other
the air that gets trapped in between
them heats up and keeps you
warm the opposite works just as well
even a really lightweight sheath can
betray you it still traps warm air
just use one either a comforter or sheet
if back pain just won't let you sleep on
your side a special pillow might just
make all the difference
put it between your legs to straighten
up your hips it's going to help your
lower back out a lot
it works for knee pain too if you sleep
on your back just tuck one under your
knees to ease the strain
if you find it almost impossible to fall
asleep you're probably not
tired if you're still up after 20
minutes you should probably get up and
do something relaxing
some nice calming music maybe a little
reading
opening your phones just about the worst
thing you can do
social media and news apps are designed
to keep you awake
the worst thing you can do watch that
second hand take its way around turn
your clock away from you
counting minutes is pretty stressful
even if you don't realize
check everything around you there might
be something obvious that's stopping you
from falling asleep
some sort of light that hits your eyes
funny or a faucet that's dripping
dripping dripping absurd try not to
drink anything at least two hours before
you go to sleep
unless you just love waking up in the
middle of the night to go to the
bathroom
it can be really hard to fall back
asleep again
give that last glass of water a pass so
to speak
you can drink two in the morning to make
up for it
as for food time matters don't eat
anything at least an
hour before bed a tiny spoonful of
chocolate ice cream is okay
a big dinner right before bed is like
your boss handing you a project at 5 pm
on a friday
if you're hungry late at night go for a
snack a few sips of milk
maybe some cheese oops
one study found that eating breakfast
for dinner is really helpful
if you want to fall asleep faster
bananas eggs toast
they're all packed with potassium
protein and carbs
all the things you need to help you
relax and fall asleep
brenner is the new dinner so all dinner
is the new
lunch or something
[Music]
sleep isn't the only thing that makes
you productive there are lots of super
foods that can boost your productivity
too
berries are awesome for that most
berries are packed with antioxidants
that help your body and mind
but the darker the berries are the more
antioxidants they have
blueberries are a great choice even
chewing gum can help
keep that jaw working and you're looking
at some increased productivity about 10
chewing keeps you focused hey just look
at cows
talk about productivity chewing can help
you think more logically
it also lowers your stress hormones
keeps you awake
and keeps everything minty fresh
some well-placed tin foil can
dramatically improve the quality of your
sleep
most people use extra dark shades but
you can try covering part of a window
with tin foil
that part of the window where the
morning sun bursts in on you while
you're still asleep
yeah it also stops your bedroom from
being a sauna in the summer
[Music]
at night time light isn't your best
friend but you actually do need light to
sleep well
if you don't get enough sunlight during
the day you might be in trouble after
sundown
two hours of sunlight exposure a day can
boost your sleep efficiency
the sun is your friend go out and say
hello
if it says hello back well there might
be something else wrong with you
you should definitely avoid blue light
for at least two hours before bed
blue light means one thing screens tvs
laptops smartphones
blue light tricks your brain into
thinking it's still day
that's why it doesn't let you sleep well
if you can't fall asleep without
scrolling your feed
you might want to download an app that
blocks out blue light
or just leave your phone in the living
room
some people are all about white noise
some soft hissing
or whales singing about you know
whatever they sing about
they say it helps them fall asleep
faster and sleep better
do what works for you some people even
put on some white noise while they're
working or studying
you can buy a white noise machine online
for about 25 bucks
or if you live in a busy city just crack
the window open
the best sleep you can get is at night
but if you're a major napper
make sure you set an alarm 20 minutes
max or instead of a nap
try taking a short walk washing your
face maybe a glass of ice cold water
in your face but if you're gonna nap
don't do it after 5 pm your body will
get super confused and you might find it
really difficult to fall asleep
later that night and watch out for
caffeine
it keeps you energized which is great as
long as you're not desperately trying to
fall asleep
there's caffeine in a lot of stuff these
days not just coffee
check those labels chocolate tea ice
cream cereal
even some go-to pain pills double check
just to make sure oh and sorry my fluffy
friends
beds are for humans only pets love to
leave
dander fleas a ton of fur pollen and
other allergens all over your pillows
and comforter
can't get milo to sleep in his own bed
there are pros out there to teach your
dog some good bed
manners me well i like the dog and the
cat on the bed at night
even if they hog the covers a lot